Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
simulation confirmed. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
Just another reminder of course uh that
we are throwing the first ITC conference
in November, November 20th through the
22nd in Miami. So hopefully I will see a
lot of you guys there. Let's go ahead
and jump in. We've made videos like this
in the past and we're just going to make
another one. And basically it's to say
look, it's easy to over complicate
things, but things continue to not
really be that complicated. And I think
the last time I did this video was like
in February where Bitcoin formed a low
in early February of 2026. just like it
formed a low in February of 2018, right?
And what happened back then is we had a
nice rally um and then we came back down
and then we formed a higher low. Bitcoin
formed a higher low in late March, early
April of 2018. And in 2026, we formed a
higher low in late March, early April of
this year, right? And so then when
Bitcoin rallied back up to its bare
market resistance band and or the 200
day moving average in May of 2026, we
were looking at this and we're like, you
know what, this kind of looks like the
same thing where after you go to the
bare market resistance band in the
midterm year in May, this was May of
2018 and May of 2026, then you would
expect Bitcoin to then go down and take
out the low from February. You can see
that Bitcoin took out the low from
February in June of 2018
and then it rallied back up to the bare
market resistance band and then came
down. Now, there is one thing though and
and and and I I want to be clear about
this. Every bare market is slightly
different and I want to show you a
couple of of differences so that we can
be aware of the fact that it will likely
take a detour at some point. Every bare
market is slightly different. They don't
always play out the same way. Let me
give you an example. A lot of times
Bitcoin will form it'll rally into into
May, right? So if you look at like May
of 2014, there was a big rally into May.
If you look at 2018, there was a big
rally into May of 2018.
But in 2022,
Bitcoin crashed in May. There was no
rally. So seasonality doesn't always
work out, right? Sometimes it does, but
it doesn't always. And so that's why I
say getting the path is really hard,
right? Getting the path to the exact
bottom is a is a fool's errand. And and
it's I don't trade it at all. It's a
fool's errand. What I've said before is
I just ignore Bitcoin for the first half
of the year and then I start dcaing it
in the second half of midterm years. I
would say that's worked out pretty well
because on July 1st, right on July 1st
today, Bitcoin put in a new low at
57,000 57.7K.
Now, I hope you're sitting down because
this is where the whole simulation
confirmed idea is coming from. Now
listen, it could detour and we'll talk
about what that would look like, but
take a look at this for a moment with me
because you're I'm I'm looking at the
same chart as everyone else. I feel like
I'm just willing to call it out.
Where did the low occur? 57.7K.
You see that? 57.7.
Would you care to guess where the low
was in 2018 in June, late June, early
July?
I mean I again I I hope you're sitting
down because the low
57k
sorry 5700 5700 the actual low exactly
was 5743.
So you have a scenario where in 2018 you
had a low in late June, early July at
and in 2026 you have a low in late June,
early July at 57,000.
You see how the similarities have played
out, right? The the low was a sweep of
the February low.
again, what's going to happen now? So,
what I would say is this. I mean, again,
no one knows the path. There's always a
chance it just breaks down and and
there's not a counterturn rally into
late July and that it plays out in a
different form than what we've seen
before. And and and by the way, like if
Bitcoin were to go to 55K tomorrow, it
doesn't completely negate the potential
of having a a rally kind of in the mid
to late summer, right? You could still
have one. When you talk about lows, they
don't always have to occur at the exact
same time. Let me give you an example.
In 2018, the low in June occurred in on
June 24th. Whereas this time, the low
occurred on July 1st. But what's
interesting is that the higher low that
we got in late June was 57.84
again, which is just onetenth of the
current low that we just had.
So what is a plausible path from here?
We have to think about a couple of
things, right? There's pricebased
capitulation and timebased capitulation.
Timebased capitulation would likely be
over in a few months. So it's already
July. I know a lot of people have given
me a lot of crap for this year for
talking about, you know, a year-long
bare market. And every counter trend
rally, you know, I have to deal with
that and and I'll probably have to deal
with it again here in a minute. But the
reality is is counter trend rallies are
all that a lot of what they do is they
they basically just get people to go
back in give that they they get
leveraged up levered up and then they
get wiped out. What I would say is this
the the the strategy for midterm years
for Bitcoin is that I found successful
not financial advice but is to DCA
Bitcoin throughout the second half of
the midterm year. Right? That's what has
historically worked out for me.
Do I want to guess where the bottom is?
Not really. I mean, I could find reasons
for why it could bottom at different
levels. Uh, you know, you could have a
bottom at anywhere between 30 and 60K.
Like, it's certainly possible. And I
could I could provide reasons for those,
but the point is is like no one really
knows. And I I would argue the more
confident talking heads out there that
call for lows have also been calling for
the low all year. So, they don't know,
right? They might pretend to know, but
they don't know. Uh, I don't know,
right? I can promise you I don't know.
I'm just doing the best I can. And when
I look at the market, I see a market
that has been generally tracking prior
midterm years. So, let's go take a look
at seasonality.
If you look at 2026 and compare that to
2018, you'll see how the lows were in
February, higher low in late March,
early April, a lower high in May, and
then you kind of come down into late
June, early July, right?
So, what you would be looking for for
confirmation of a counter trend rally
because we don't know yet. We don't know
yet if we're going to get a counter
trend rally or not. Remember, in 2022,
Bitcoin nuked in May rather than rally
in May like it normally does. And
another example, while Bitcoin normally
rallies in July, in July of 2014,
Bitcoin actually went down. Like you
look at 2014, Bitcoin went down in July,
not up. So again, there is not an exact
science. I know there's people that say,
"Well, this is what it always does." For
every time you can find that Bitcoin
normally does something, it then there's
there's examples where it doesn't do
that, right? And I had, you know, a few
months ago there was a guy basically
saying when Bitcoin um was sort of it it
wicked above on some platforms like it
or he said if it if it would go above
the 200 day moving average Bitcoin is
always the low was always be in. And I
was like well that's not true. If you go
back to 2014, you know, you can see we
went above the 200 day a couple of times
there and the low was not in. And in
2019 we went above the 200 day moving
average and the low was not in. And then
I was like, well, you only have two
examples. But yeah, I mean but that's
all we have to work with. The point is
is like for every time you say the last
time this happened, Bitcoin did X,
there's another time you can find it
where it did Y instead. And so you have
to be careful with seasonality.
But what I would say is this from a
seasonality standpoint.
We're getting close to the end of that
weak era, right? Usually 70 I'd say 70%
of the time
arguably Bitcoin sees some relief in
July. It could go down but it sees some
relief. And what would likely happen is
if Bitcoin were to have some relief in
July, the reason why it would come back
down after that more than likely would
be due to a correction in the stock
market that normally happens in the back
of half of midterm years.
So
that's the argument. Like the argument
is like, okay, well, what if what if the
the the we called for a shallow June
correction by stocks? We got that. What
if that's over now and we go back up for
a bit? That would be a tailwind for
Bitcoin, more than likely.
What I would look for for confirmation
of the rally, we don't know yet, right?
I mean, Bitcoin's still at 60K. It
hasn't gone anywhere if we're being
honest. What you look for, look at what
happened in 2018.
What Bitcoin did was it put in a low in
in late June. It got a rally into early
July and then got a big dump back down
to $6,000 in mid in mid July. So we
essentially we formed a higher low. So
you had your low,
you then got a rally up to 676,800
and then we came back down and formed a
higher low in mid July. Now, if you
think about it, what would that
correspond to? It would correspond to
maybe inflation doesn't come as come in
as bad as people think. Oil's come back
down. Perhaps some of the inflation
stuff, you know, people start to think,
all right, it was overblown. We don't
have the issues anymore. Things are
fine. Could that lead to a counter trend
rally back up by Bitcoin? Absolutely.
And you can see that it got rejected
just shy of the 200 day moving average,
which is where it also got rejected at
in May 2018 as well, the 200 day moving
average. So what you look for for
confirmation of the rally is a higher
low, right? Otherwise, it's a falling
knife until proven otherwise. Let me
give you an example of a falling knife
2022, right? So in 2022, you can see
there was a low formed in May.
You got a bounce for a while, but then
another low didn't occur until a little
over a month later. And then the counter
trend rally happened. And this is why
trying to identify counter trend rallies
when they start is so difficult because
you could be off by two weeks and you've
completely given up all your counter
trend rally gains. Think about it. If
you bought Bitcoin in, let's say you
bought it on June 12th thinking that the
low was in at 28K, it then went all the
way down to 17K and then the counter
trend rally that happened just took it
back up to 25, right? which was still
lower than where you might have bought
thinking the counter turn was going to
start in 2026.
You know, a lot of people thought
Bitcoin was going to bounce at 75K right
when it hit that and then the market
went down a ton before it got a counter
trend rally.
So, it's really hard to nail down the
exact path. Really, really, really hard.
When you look at the year-to- date ROI
though, 2018 it's still it's still
generally tracking 2018. If you look at
2022, you can see it's a little bit
different. Like the cadence isn't isn't
there in the same way. Like there's not
like the lows aren't really
corresponding to the lows as much. The
highs aren't really corresponding to the
highs. And if you look at 2014, it's
also there's also a lot of differences
as well. The high that we reached in
2026 as measured from the yearly open
matches the similar similar to the high
in 2014. But you can see when we did
eventually get a bounce, it didn't
really go anywhere and then it and then
it bled out into the October low. You
see that it bled out into the October
low. So when I combined them, which is
what I like to do to give me an idea of
the average. When I combine them, I see
that Bitcoin is currently still trading
above the average of prior midterm
years. You can see that on average,
Bitcoin sees a little bit of strength in
late July, right? Because of this whole
this sort of this downtrend. You can see
how there's on average there's like a
lower high in in late July. So let's see
how this plays out. I do not yet think
there's evidence that it's playing out
like the pandemic crash from 2019 2020,
right? Where we had and we're we're
making the comparison to 2019 because of
the the similarities. There was an
apathetic top, no rotation into
altcoins, the Fed ended quantitative
tighting and there were three rate cuts
all the same. 2019 2025 very very
similar in that regard. At this point
though in that bare market we had a
pandemic which caused pricebased
capitulation
but as long as you don't have that I
think you defer to time based
capitulation.
Now I think the right strategy for
Bitcoin is to DCA it throughout the
second half of midterm years and not get
overly cute on trying to time the exact
bottom. But in terms of like you know if
there is a counter trend rally where
would it likely top out at? And the most
likely time frame for that would
probably be like late July to late
August or something. It would likely be,
you know, the 200 day moving average
slashbear market resistance band. So it
could look something like this where,
you know, you get a rally back up in
early July, we come back down, it then
goes up, people lose their minds, I'm an
idiot again, you know, all the whole
nine yards. Then we come back down uh
and do something like that and then form
the actual low and then we build off
that. That's a completely plausible
path. 2022 it would have done something
like this in terms of like that pattern.
It it went down a little bit more. It
kind of wrecked people betting on the
counter trend rally and then it went up
and then it came down again. I don't
know the exact path. I I do think long
term buying Bitcoin below 60K is is
probably again not financial advice, but
buying Bitcoin below 60K will probably
work out fine over the long term.
Um it's just more so like what could I
say about the rest of this year, right?
Like what will happen, you know, in 2018
and in 2019 the $6,000 level did
eventually break, right? And it did
eventually break and then when it did
break, we we bottom fairly quickly after
it broke.
So when I if if and when that happens,
it could lead into the market cycle
bottom a lot sooner. And that's why I've
said while I expect the bare market to
last about one year from the top, which
means we only got like three more
months, right? Um well, I expect about
one year, I would be willing to pivot if
price were to capitulate sooner.
If we get to October and we're still
trading at 60K, then I might just pivot
anyways. I'd be like, "All right, that's
good enough for me."
But pivoting my view and buying are two
different things, right? There's a, and
this is where I've said before, there's
a difference between being right and
making money. Okay? There's a
difference. And don't make the mistake
of of not realizing that there is a
difference. You could be right about any
number of things. Doesn't mean you're
going to make a dime. The only way you
make money is if you actually put your
money where your mouth is, right? So for
me, if there is a bull market out in
2027, I want to make sure I capture
that. And for me, that means, you know,
DCAing into Bitcoin in the second half
of midterm years, but also coming to you
guys as honestly as I can and saying,
"Look, while we could get a counter
trend rally, I don't know for sure. And
even if we get one, we still likely will
come back down in the back half of the
year. not because of anything wrong with
Bitcoin, but usually there's just a
correction in stocks in the second half
of midterm years, and that's normally
what allows Bitcoin to put in the market
cycle bottom.
So, that's where I am. And I think one
of the reasons why I've often bought in
July of midterm years is because I've
I've sort of recognized that you can get
counter trend rallies. And and if you
buy a little bit uh in July, then if
there is a counter trend rally into like
late July or late August, you're not
then kicking yourself for having
completely missed it. That's kind of how
I think about it. But I would still save
the majority of the DCAs, you know, and
and and allow them to potentially put
money again into the market later in the
year if in fact it does play out like
prior midterm years where you get that
final drop in the fourth quarter. Okay.
But a lot of times, you know, Q3 does
allow for some type of counter trend
rally into the summer months. Like that
one there in 2018 went into July. The
one we got in in 2022, you can see we
had a nice counter trend rally from June
into into mid August.
So, you'll probably see something
similar, right? I don't know exactly
where the low is, whether it's already
in and then we counter trend rally up or
if it goes a little bit lower and then
it happens. But my guess is that you
would get something like that. And the
way that I would be wrong about a
counter trend rally is if a major
financial thing in the in the industry,
if it go if something if something big
happens where some major name gets
liquidated, that could change things.
But as long as the status quo remains
unchanged, I think you defer to
seasonality until proven otherwise. So,
I think, you know, Bitcoin is is trying
to find a low sometime soon if it's not
already in. And then it's going to try
to work off of that low for a few weeks.
And it could be due to inflation coming
in lower. It could be due to maybe the
labor market isn't as bad. I don't know.
But that's what it's like likely going
to happen, right? A low forms normally
late June, early July. We then work off
of that low for a few weeks and then we
deal with the fact that the S&P corrects
in the back half of the year and then
that's where Bitcoin puts in the market
cycle bottom. But the reason I'm saying
that we live in a simulation regardless
of what happens right now is how in 2018
Bitcoin found a low at 5700 and this
time Bitcoin just tagged 57,000. I'm
like what are the odds that this stuff
just keeps on happening? Like I know
people want to over complicate the
4-year cycle and and like pretend to be
like really smart and say like, "Oh,
it's because of the macro or you know
the macro did this which is why." No,
none of that stuff matters for this
stuff. Like none of it matters. You
don't need to over complicate stuff. In
fact, if you over complicate it, you're
probably just going to lose money,
right? A lot of the guys that rely on on
all that stuff, they basically you could
argue they've underperformed the market
for years because they're relying on
stuff that just simply doesn't matter.
The reality is is that Bitcoin in 2018
found a low in February and it did in
2026. Did I need to know what the
inflation rate was doing? Did I need to
know what the money supply was doing?
No. Right? Did I need to know what the
ISM was doing? None of it mattered.
Right? None of it mattered.
None of it.
Bitcoin still did the same thing that it
always does. So that's why if you follow
me on Twitter,
you'll see me like kind of push back on
some of the stuff because I'm like,
"Okay, guys, you know, you have a
narrative, but again, it it just keeps
on playing out the same way." And why
over complicate stuff? Like I'd rather
I'd rather just come up with the
simplest solution and go live my life,
go spend time with my kids and my wife,
like go spend time with my family than
try to over complicate this stuff,
right? Like I'd rather go live my life
than over complicate things. And this is
why I say keep it simple, right? I I
just want I want to keep this stuff
simple, not over complicated and
have a strategy, stick to it, and hope
it works out. Because any time in the
past where I have over complicated it, I
just look back, I'm like, "Wow, why did
I do that?" Like that was a really dumb
thing to do. I should have just deferred
to the most likely outcome and I would
have been a lot better off. Instead, I
relied on other macro indicators that
didn't play out, that didn't pan out.
And and so deferring to the c the sort
of this the cyclical nature of Bitcoin
ends up making a lot of sense, you know,
and for me, the bottoming window for
Bitcoin
is the back half and midterm years. And
guess what? That view was right because
today is July 1st and Bitcoin just put
in a new low. So once again, ignoring
Bitcoin for the first half of the
midterm year was the right call because
we put in a new low on the very first
day of July. So you can see again why
the strategy has worked out, why it
continues to work out. And as I said all
those months ago, all these mental
gymnastics that people had as to why
this time was different, it just never
was. and and all you had to do was just
ignore Bitcoin in the first half of the
year and you weren't missing out on
anything. You just simply weren't in the
back half of the midterm year. You got
to be more so on the lookout for for
major market cycle bottoms and then
Bitcoin could theoretically build off of
for the next bull market. I think we've
done a good job here highlighting that
it hasn't been easy in the fir it was
not easy in the first half of the
midterm year uh because you know of what
was said but here we are lessons
learned. Let's see what happens in the
back half of the midterm year and I
think it's going to hopefully set us up
for a bull market, a more durable bull
market um hopefully in in 2027. Although
also by the way, if you are coming to
the conference, we do have a Twitter
account dedicated for the conference
where we will like announce speakers and
that sort of stuff. So make sure you
follow that. I I'll put that down in the
description below as well if you want to
follow that account. Um but that'll wrap
it up. Check out the conference if
you're interested in going. Links in the
description below. I'll see you guys
next time. Bye.